Narrative Soundscape - Paul Kupelian

The narrative soundscape “Respiration” is meant to be a sonic representation of the biological processes that underlie breath; the processes I’m referencing are cellular respiration, hormonal cascades, the transport of oxygen through the bloodstream, muscle movement, and the breath itself. These sounds have been joined together into clip units and pitched to have similar, although fluctuating, volume levels to let the listeners hear and realize that they’re happening simultaneously. The volume levels fluctuate in different tracks to represent that some processes are more active at different stages of breathing and in different places within the body than others, such as the first track having the second stage being louder, and the second track having the first stage be louder. There are also sounds of electrical interference and activity laid in the background, compressed to be slightly quieter than the rest of the sounds, but still audible; this is meant to show the neuronal activity that mediates and activates these processes, as well as how the processes feedback into making those neuron communications possible, as each sound only plays after another. 
	My goal for what listeners think about when they hear Respiration is the intersectionality of the human body. In the modern age of science and media, a lot of research and information can be easily compressed and streamlined for comprehension, especially things that are complex and require additional explanation of related subjects to fully understand. While I do believe that it’s good that everyone is able to have baseline access to previously exclusive or difficult to access information, I think much important depth is lost when information about biology, especially something as important to us as human physiology, is streamlined. I feel a particular compulsion about biology because my method for trying to completely understand a subject is to start at its root, the basis from which it operates. For people, our basis is our body; the thoughts and emotions that guide our actions are influenced in turn by the biomechanics that produce them, so I think it’s very important that people should have some level of understanding about their own physiology, because it can shed a lot of light on how and why we and other people behave the way we do. Thus, I hope the multilayered and somewhat chaotic Respiration can highlight in microcosm how the body’s multitude of functions overlap and vary in similar ways to the sounds in Respiration. 
